and it's recording hi everyone welcome
to the dynamic data and capabilities
working group thanks for coming so I'm
going to share my screen so that you can
see the notes all right so start
recording and I will ask everyone to put
their names in their name in the list of
attendees please and I'll ask her is
there a volunteer to take notes today
Jim thank you I can do Kevin your
cutscene is joining us from Tokyo I
believe or in Japan
Sapporo Sapporo and please everyone ask
add atoms to the agenda or things that
we'd like to discuss our things that you
want to like start a discussion and get
it get a bunch of a group of people that
will be later be participating in
another session as we did recently with
the identity special interests all right
so let's start with a round of intros
and updates according to the list of
attendees on the top all right
I think it's that's me first all right
so last couple of weeks we started the
special interest group on identity and
it's led by Brian Cruz so in that in
that sense we had the first meeting we
created the IRC channel like if I said
entity and we started project management
data repo that will handle the DMing of
the IDM the identity manager proof of
concept and spec and on on the code
released a more recent version of the
OCI disease with basically two well two
small improvements on the RGA type which
is used by by pier pads and no other
apps so first one which is a better
collision free UUID generator it was
something that was only happening in
tests because it is theoretically safe
across cross processes but since the
some tests were run the same process
there were some collisions and so I
fixed that and I also added a bunch of
RGA tests I toughened the tests and but
but no required changes so the tests
came out green also in the pier star at
realm I did a small initiative of
speeding up the tests which was making
some tests not be time-outs biased and
be event based so now instead of waiting
in some case instead of waiting for some
fixed period of time and see if there is
convergence for instance we just listen
to the events and test convergence in
that case so it's in the store at the
time that the test run is it is optimal
I released also just releasing a few
minutes ago pierced our rap version
0.10.0 this is like a major it's not a
measure in terms of semver but it's a
major release with many fixes and
improvements on the replication part of
it so I was analyzing whether the deltas
were were optimal so Delta between
replicas were Ultimo and they were in
the case of two collaborations or two to
two nodes doing a concurrent changes
when there was more concurrency then the
the protocol was not not what not a
protocol but the internals were not
behaving that well and and so it will
last resort it sends the whole state so
sending the whole state
for large documents means that's the
encryption/decryption
happening on what a large chunk of a
large buffer will bog down any any app
and that was what I suspect what's
happening to beer bad and so hopefully
this will fix some of the some some of
the issues that people was was having
with having the event loop so the main
thread occupied a lot with crypto stuff
that's let's hope so
so some more tests coming up with with
that and yes so the the downside of that
is that pure syrup is backwards
incompatible in the sense of the
replication protocol but since we're not
have not reached yet version 1.0 it
first is hard to to replicate that in to
represent that in cember and also you
would see i don't think that's that's a
major major issue because we never
haven't reach one zero anyway that's my
update so i'll stop sharing Jim you're
next
you
hi Jim
it was muted a minute okay
I was reading that section
you
Oh My Name Is Khan okay okay so let's
see exciting who happened in last two
weeks I was added as the official
maintainer of pure pad on github yay
before I left for Japan I was
experimenting with the end end load
tests and on my laptop on my desktop and
on my Linux box at home
so sort understand that a lot better I
was trying to see how many replications
I could run it once and then seeing
where the limits were and then I had to
hop on plane because they talk at Tokyo
node fest and I spent most of last last
week sort of prepping for that talk I
gave a quick talk
on Thursday night at the one of the dot
project developers in Osaka organized
another sort of meetup think this is
small good the people went to that one
and the talk event really well I thought
so I covered for different distributed
web things I originally wanted to do but
two visualizations for it but I sort of
ran out of time but there's mostly
slides but it was pretty well received I
think people in Japan don't really know
a lot about this any of these projects
then then afterwards I went up with the
family to Hokkaido just like the
northern island of Japan and I'm in
support now and since I've been here I
work on I saw running the in the tester
pierced our app it was getting a lot of
linter warnings because there's new more
restrictive settings for the linter in
medias as I say that and so the approach
I took with that was to mostly just
disable the warnings on a case-by-case
basis and I think what we should do is
break them out into individual issues
and try to fix them individually try to
figure out strategies so like there's a
lot of console dot log that we use and I
think we have to replace that with
something and also in last two weeks I
got a new contract so I'm around for
several more months yay so in progress
yeah right now I'm trying to figure out
how to the tests are really chatty and
this distracting it's hard to there's
some things a lot of things pop up which
you don't think should be there so I'm
investigating and cleaning up warnings I
want to take some of the test cases and
sort of establish performance budget so
that's
really to the end end load taste tests
and I'm gonna stabilize that a lot
further I think it's we should be able
to I'll see how Pedro's new changes he
just released affect that but I like to
see much much higher numbers in terms of
my peers we can run that once on the
load test on me
the next box and I saw had rows been
putting some work into the new interface
for persistence so I want to really look
at that and how that's gonna be used by
the Pinner and we've been talking about
how what how to get this latest stuff to
play to the production peer pad so
discussing whether to chop out some of
the UI that's there and just make it a
little bit more simpler cuz we just want
to deploy to internal users and of
course through the production deploy
there's currently no printer deployed so
I gotta figure out where to put that
next week I've committed to talking to
Google in Tokyo they're doing the signed
HTTP exchanges work here so I'm gonna
talk to Lydell about that and of course
I'll write up my trip notes and then go
back to Canada so that's it for me thank
you Jim any questions for Jim I have a
suggestion so if you approve all the
latest changes and upgrade pure pad to
the lightest peer stars and I suggest
and we deploy deploy Pinner
that we try it out as your feet as the
official not taking to next on the next
meeting okay you could have a backup but
I think it's let's that's a good a good
goal to have because I'm I've now
wrapped up the beer star tests on that
specific use case for for peer pods and
in very high-frequency concurrent
changes and I think there is a lot of
improvements there so yeah I am sure
when I should have and I just thought of
Dirk has just posted issues saying that
he sped up the how quickly things Pierce
can find each other as well yeah just
wanted to point out that while using
crimp bands today I noticed a few times
that I've been getting glitched outs and
lost my changes so I guess that Lake Jim
that lost your name as well so I feel
like our baseline off performance that
we have to like match is not that high
so we should be okay yeah exactly
I lost mine too so not like another case
to to migrate all right any more
questions - James all right not a
question after Jim is chosen yeah okay
I'm working on this certify ways and ray
Cruz I open a new issue and new issue
with the Q&A for the UI level or
something that we predicted for as a new
features and something that is missing
from the implementation side and it was
already predicted from the design sites
also being 40 specified I left
everything on the repo which has the
older user journeys and the style guide
of theta and then for Pierre part I
completed the mobile version which is
right now read-only because we had that
discussion that the edits side of the
application shouldn't be on on mobile
devices in progress
I have he started the discuss if Iran
may know something that I stopped before
a bit first yeah it's at least it's
starts it's at some point the current
status for the painting for the painting
for Pierre path I have predicted some
examples and have this list on the
denotes
and the next steps for this will be
discussed with the team and maybe
provide a table with all the
scenario and even the bootstrap or for
the pages what are the scenarios that
that will imply to change something on
the UI level and yes for now there
that's it awesome
thank you any questions for and right
let's jump next is David actually a
sorry I had a question oh yeah sorry go
ahead
yeah odd raiser somewhere where we can
consider scenarios currently I'll upload
them tomorrow because we need to discuss
here mock's en with the theme before
just jumping to you and maybe discuss as
a working groups i immediately find that
first okay thank you okay thank you hey
guys what's going on not much to report
after thanksgiving week but I've just
been writing tasks for social proof and
thinking more about how it might be
deconstructed and used elsewhere as
modules so that's that's really all
that's going on couple bugs with Firefox
2 also hopefully maybe there's a few
minutes afterwards if if anyone wants to
just spend two minutes talking real
quick about software security slash you
know what would you call it and I just I
don't know if all the crypto has been
vetted properly so just a real quick two
minutes on that yeah like that add to
that is a thing that just happened on
NPM with Dominic cars module and you
know like the whole nvm community needs
the social proof thing like so bad right
now
so well yeah and so if anyone wants to
two minutes is all I just want to talk
about my experience doing that kind of
thing and what maybe I'm probably
completely unaware of any efforts inside
of the company over this so this group
doing the validation of all this crypto
code
yes please let's do a let's do that
after the meeting I'm interested
any questions
now thank you David all right next up
Arkady
okay okay so not a not a ton of updates
so successfully completed dental surgery
and Thanksgiving so that's that's great
aside from that I did kind of like a
mini products session which focused
mostly on immediate kind of needs as
opposed to the little bit further outs
like it's simmering to polish stuff that
like whatever has been looking at so
basically the idea there was how do we
make this the best most focused tool for
internal company note-taking today
without thinking necessarily about how
it would look to someone from outside
peel and so on so there's an issue that
basically focuses on kind of like
ruthlessly tearing things out
um look everyone is froze am I was a
glitching out just now you're okay okay
all right so uh yeah so there's an issue
linked in my updates please take a look
at that if you have moments let me know
your thoughts basically focuses just
taking things out we can get a more
streamlined thing that we can focus on
getting the core functionality really
grates before we kind of build it up
again it has a 404 error okay all right
so things that check back to the yeah it
may be just informations to see yeah
yeah
you
all right any questions to Arkady
related I think the readiest was talking
about making the the the p.m. stuff for
peer paired public as opposed to
internal only right yeah I think I think
that it's been kind of pushing for like
just more openness across various things
which I mean I think it could be a
little annoying to have a kind of like
people chiming in was like minor design
input when it's not really the best
medium for that but that's I mean that's
a fine cost so I'm okay with making
public if
okay
there's
more questions to Arkady let's continue
well so I did
hi okay um so the basic sort of I have a
couple of graphs I want them to be
synchronized in the same state it's
working fine I'm pushing off the more
sophisticated approaches to this then
just sort of the brute force send nodes
merge graphs both because I think
defining the interfaces is more
important right now and more pressing
than making the implementation better
but also because the I talked with the
IP LD folks at their bi-weekly and then
after for a while yesterday and they're
interested in this although I guess the
word they're using to avoid conflicting
with graphs ink is replication so
there's an a repo link about that
there's nothing in there right now but
it is apparently gonna be used in I my
stuff is sort of is up there now the git
repos is share it doesn't have all the
latest stuff but it has things that
should be working there's a test that
they're test in there that will sort of
show how it gets used but it's not in
it's not in the you know just plug it
into your project and use it state yet
both from lack of testing and also
because I want to wrap it in sort of an
IP NS style interface layer there's a
spec that is in the repo that discusses
that should I'd be happy to talk about
more anyone once um this ties a little
bit into the diverging stuff that I'm
Jeb put out there because it's all sort
of the same problem of how do we access
and talk about virgin documents and
change them
I'm putting up some new working on
putting up more specs and basically yeah
I'm just trying to improve the multi
writer IPS implementation and eventually
try and plug it into a causal chat
application trying to balance between
building out more interfaces and
building out sort of throwaway demo hood
nice a quick question I think well
that's just a suggestion
laughter yeah throw away apps yeah can
wecan seem kind of wasteful but but I
think they they make for a good time
when a good a good purpose to to get
your things running so I yeah if yeah
just trying to do both so like I built
the scaffolding for one and I'm like
okay let me go back and do the IPS
interfaces and then alright it's sort of
using the interfaces to help are using
the demo to help make the interface is
easier so that people can reuse them
nice I just wanted to say something I'm
very like interested in what you're
doing
I didn't so just to give you some
context one of the goals of discuss if I
end up before discuss if I wish was keep
stir and specific hipster was about you
know a knowledge base for the for the
Internet
and if you think about the knowledge
base it can be pretty much a graph of of
knowledge nodes and so on and I'm very
interested in what you came up with with
graphs Inc so that perhaps we could
leverage that to have a no predictor
open data model to you know to expose
knowledge bases and so on I'm not sure
if you found a comment on on that if
it's possible of its it's the right tool
for the job but I see a lot of potential
in that
yeah the general hypothesis with what
this thing is that moving around graphs
that just contains C IDs is not so
expensive and synchronizing them even
with the you know very basic flooding
sync I have now and probably will
replace it with other more sophisticated
things later is it's not too bad um and
you can use this instead of having
either a centralized either needing
consensus and sort of a centralizing
agreement protocol or making it sort of
you know single writer like IP NS does
all right so this is this is sort of an
attempt at that we will see how it turns
out um my guess is that it's going to be
okay because it may you may need to
tweak your workflow for instance I'm not
sure how well this would work if you
decided to use it with you know peer
pods sending every single character
right but if you want it if you batch
them off into slightly larger groups
then maybe maybe things get a lot easier
the idea is also try and take into
account different use cases of these
data structures so like the the few that
I listed are sort of you know get like
branches where you actually want to keep
all of the the state is the changes you
want to keep all of them
IPS type of overwriting semantics and
then CRD T's right and an operational
transform Delta C Rd T's are good but
they only work in this one particular
use case in which you can optimize for
so the question is in using a more
generic structure like this is there a
way we can accommodate more without
compromising too much by just saying you
can do anything and we will see what
happens
cool cool there's I guess one more thing
if there's also a related there's a
related topic about related to pub sub
and like there's the algorithm for
communicating and then there's the the
network of which in how and how the
communications are distributed right now
I'm not using pub sub but I think that
some of the pub sub stuff could be
extracted so that and reused across
different the topologies can be reused
and even if the network changes sort of
thing nice I suggest in terms of of the
pub sub and the topology gossip sub I
think there's been a recent creation or
gossip well implementation of gossip
suck in ipfs so you may want to either
use that or be inspired by by it it's so
the use case is that it's optimized it's
not optimized so it's not optimized for
single source whether the epidemic
broadcast tree protocol is typically
optimized for the single source so it
like it works really well if you have
like as once one node is producing all
the data but it kind of how do you say
it it flaps when when there is multiple
sources of data so that may be
interesting in in pursuing the gossips
protocol which is something that pier
star I think should also at a given time
use once it's implemented and JSF EFS or
even drive the implementation of that in
joyous at the offense but your luck is
if you're using go you probably may use
Go Go Go's implementation of gossips on
yeah I think I'll put together a
document of some sort describing what
you know what parts I think I can use
from the pub sub world and what parts
not and and see where people think about
where there there's an appropriate
bridging there or not so yeah and and
you'll think just no one to along too
much but I think you'll probably reach
the the same stage as at pier star we're
right for rapid saying you you create a
specific protocol for for seeking me in
our case in this case sorry Delta's and
then synchronizing Delta's over that
that that are have affected clocks it's
a very specific so it's a very specific
protocol because because doctors have
had this this property of being joinable
and but not so much with operation bias
charities if you want to make sure it's
generic dag like operation and make it
that pliable to all sorts of different
use cases I think that's a good generic
approach I agree more more questions for
them
now
next is mark cool hi guys
first I'm talking today so check my
wrists so coming coming back from from
my vacation so first I needed to sync
with design working group few things
affected our working group as well so
right now I need to update our design
file structure based on the discussions
that we've had with the design working
group and this will be very useful for
for anyone who is doing work that has
any any type of design work embedded in
it so pure your pad would be a good
example of this then one thing we still
need to decide for now for to specify
we're still using github to store all
the design assets that's something that
the design working group is still
deciding on where we will store all that
information because one thing is storing
the information the other thing is how
do you actually get people to
collaborate on those files some of these
all of these projects are open source so
if you want to be using for instance
Google Drive which is one of the options
how do you get the community at large to
access those files and be able to to
contribute on on those files so that's
something that still needs to be solved
another thing that is in discussion
there is how the DDC and other working
groups should interact and request the
request stuff from the design working
group that's we're talking about the lab
OS how this should actually work it's
still working progress as well so moving
on we are right now creating a table of
possible statuses as andre Sosa
mentioned especially intervene ian's
status and messaging for each of those
intersections once we have a solution we
will present you to gather feedback then
in our view this this this is a problem
that is typical to all peer star apps
and ideally on peer
we should provide essentially a table of
recommendations of user experience for
anyone building on top of pure star you
should approach it this way and
communicate it this way for in order to
be simple for the user this will likely
be adopted by Pierre pad which is
something is already working on then we
will apply it also and on the specify
and eventually on IBM okay so one note
this might require information on P R
star there is not available yet for the
developer so once we have that
information we will discuss with with
with bedroom it should be able to help
us with that what's next okay so one of
the things now that we're reaching a
certain stage and we want to make it
easier to launch updates and gather
feedback from from people who are
testing right now you have to install it
manually so we want to put it more a bit
more public on on the Chrome Web Store
and advanced for Firefox again not a
real real launch so the idea is not to
have it's fully functioning really
functional the idea is to make it easier
for better testers to come on board to
gather feedback from those people and be
easier to release the plates so where
Chrome Web Store and other add-ons for
Firefox a few things need to improve
it's not blocking we will likely improve
the banner and there's an issue there
things that will likely improve and
there's the the pier and pinning
connectivity and because this is these
the consistency status which needs to be
reviewed with which salsa and Android
groups so blocking in order to launch
this we need to finish first began
integrating into discuss safai that's
Andre was doing
there's the integration and this
directly relates to the following point
which is that in order to so that we
don't have permanent data in the peers
because we know this is still data we
want to discard information so we will
recommend
to implement time to live on that data
so that we can keep moving releasing new
versions and anything that was discussed
until then it's just Victor we will
combine that with versioning just to
make sure that new versions of the
extension don't use old stale data
another thing that needs to be decided
is who owns the key to publish
extensions the Chrome Web Store uses
private public keys for Firefox add-ons
it's something that Android will need to
do is there is a slightly different
manifesto that means we will have likely
a template that is used to generate both
the Chrome and Firefox manifests next up
for in this next cycle I said we will
want to create copy and image for the
stores the primary will here will be
useful we need to find solutions to
gather feedback and metrics from the
beta testers so people providing
feedback on their own or just capturing
metrics from from usage errors and that
sort of thing just to make sure that we
know what's what's happening
we will also probably and this is
something we need to discuss
I need discuss with Pedro we should
probably find influencers and and the
channels or mediums where we could
announce this effort to gather interest
around the project this could be helpful
for the whole peer pad sorry pure app
ecosystem and finally hopefully this
next cycle we will have it on the stores
doesn't say something that I I remember
Marco regarding the versioning and the
time to leave we can actually just in
this and we were that easy this is just
a simple solution so to to actually like
leak the old data we can just use the
version the major version and prefix are
prepared it to the collaboration names
so that's you know each time a major
version
or a minor let's say I'd say like that
is bumped there's a new collaboration
going on yeah just for you to be aware
like we are we are we have like we are
we are being careful regarding the data
and migrations so this is something that
needs to be careful we thought out and
for now we were just looking into a
simple solution where whenever the data
changes the data is lost completely so
this is of course something temporary
and this is something only for the
alphabet a better stage until we we
plant the migrations parts carefully so
yeah we we can just test with two things
that we can do one is you know as I said
prefix or suffix the collaboration names
another one is to whenever I receive an
a plate on the App Store and it's a
breaking change I can just you know
deleter the FS repository and it's gone
and also the Pinner should reflect that
as well so yeah perhaps we could discuss
that afterwards I want one suggestion
considering we're working forward for
the permanent well one could argue that
even even if there is the old data there
is that is no longer valid considering
we will be well we have repositories so
anyone who wants to actually build an
old version can build an old version if
they need to so that that would be an
argument for keeping information in the
penis just in case you need to go back
and try something else
so that your suggestion of just going
for the version and repeating or so
fixing the collaboration would probably
be a better solution but keep in mind of
course that this will be data that is
filling up the painting service just
just because
all right let's let's let's address this
in a negative issue I think just just
general comments in that that subjects
that I well quickly things before we
settle on a like some sort of versions
dag like the version that we'll be
discussing and things that Adina has
been discussing before we gather all the
use cases and try and settle on on one
data model I think that data loss is
going to be an issue I think and then we
have to factor in things like like
migrating from one collaboration to the
other well that you're part of the
migration or not all of the strategy or
not and how we do need consensus on that
or not and so it's I don't think we do
we do need but are some drawbacks on
that's okay we can we can perhaps still
like a longer longer along a
conversation that we can have offline on
on github for instance because there is
like a lot of ramifications and on on
any solution my suggestion Marco is for
you to create like an issue
release release classifying in chrome
store and Firefox add-ons and just you
know create a list of todos there and we
include the points mentioning this part
of the data and the loss of data and how
to approach that and and we know it's
just linked to that issue and we can
discuss that separately okay so it
allows you allows has to know what's the
status of the launch and what's missing
any questions for mark I have just a
suggestion so that's the you're defining
the design system for peer star and
well-designed system at some perhaps and
UX recommendations for how to integrate
you're starting to how to create Maps
basically and so there's also
conversation being had with
a public one with the GUI voting group
and the Glee working group idea is also
created this actual set of components
that you can then important in two
different pierced our applications and
and that's why that's like a long-term
goal for next year I would say but there
there are some technical requirements
that that entails but I think it's it's
a doable one just and has but has to be
synchronized with the designing right
design then the actual view
implementation and then the apps and
perhaps also pierced our stuff so
there's there's like a bigger
conversation that we we all need to have
in terms of this flow of of design and
implementation okay all right
any more anyone else missing okay so
concluded I finished the replies in
disgust if I and also the lazy load of
the comments including the replies so I
will actually make demo if possible by
the end of the like tea session so that
we can see that working
so keep the creep body saying that is
their plates available so I can see my
notes let me refresh the browser
you
better deal like okay so yeah so
concluded that's it the replies
regarding the in progress basically is
is I I need to finish the histories and
the history and the versioning of
comments so that anyone can see the
history of a comment either because it
was elated or because it was plated and
these resulted in a discussion of
creating a module called actually two
modules one called versa dog which is
you know I profess a non related I
profess module that supports versioning
via doc I've created an issue that I
linked before but I probably lost in the
you know the Crypt about crypt path
issues I will place it there afterwards
but essentially it will allow it will
allow discuss if I and other apps to add
add versioning to anything to any
document or any comment or any other
data structure that you might want is
really very abstract and the goal is
delighted to develop also I profess
mercy that which is just a wrapper
around versa doc that simply configures
the right node and there with no node
functions to use ipfs so that it's
easier to use so I my status on that I
have a working version of lucida I will
do with just a few tests working I need
to finish finish the test and you know
write to read me and and so on I will
like finish finish the module in one to
two days worst case scenario and then I
need to integrate the model into I mean
to discuss if I to have the histories
and the version so blocks in terms of
the persistency of the data in this case
the Pinner and the sink while language
so the Pinner as far as i know is being
integrated into into the infrastructure
and
the CI workflow I think so
I mean I don't know the status of that I
think Victor is not here but I will try
to reach him out or read the issue about
about that in the infrastructure I've
been subscribing to that issue where
he's discussing the approach to have the
Pinner integrated into the
infrastructure and so on but but the
last place that I that I read the well
was that they are still working on that
and also the sink while language is
basically you know what Marco and the
rest was talking about earlier so they
are they are coming with a solution for
peer pod and also writing the table of
all the combinations of statuses so I
will wait for for what they come up with
and then I will get back to it once we
have a deaf definite solution for that
next one yeah it's integrates to
integrate ipfs for seed are into the
specify so that we have URI this will
require a smaller factor because the CR
DT at the moment has a few fields that
can be removed in favor of diversity
lack more most specifically I have the
light step latest timestamp and also the
CID of the comment that now leave in the
in diversity' University dog nodes
essentially the hands the heads of
diversity dog note contained all that
information for me so I'll I will just
get rid of that and use diversity dog
data first for that by the way versus I
exist the name then I came up with I I
think it's like like a good night but I
I don't know if you guys have any
suggestions for it so next on next on I
have a point here which is either I
dedicate the next the next one to two
weeks to launch specified or either I
kick-starts identity slash IDM so as
Mark who said we really need to you know
make
easier for users to experiment specify
and user specified via the chrome store
and the Firefox add-ons start but to do
that we need to do some stuff more
specifically we need to prepare the
manifest of the accession to be
compatible with Firefox there there's
basically a few fields some fuels that
are exclusive to chrome and I need to
exclude those fields for for Firefox so
this is more like a build step phase
where I create a manifestation for
Chrome and a manifestation for Firefox
we need to come up with a solution for
the versioning of the data model so that
you know we don't deal with migrations
for now also we need to implement a new
banner slash header which is smaller and
also pre prettier and also we need to we
need to publish on the star by having
your logo decide a copy of the
description of the app and also the the
public key we need to either generate a
public key and past the private slash
public key to the infrastructure team I
don't know or or they supply a public
key for us or they publish the the thing
we don't know I think we need to reach
out the PFS extension or the team that
did the extension so that we probably
follow what they were what they did in
relation to the public key and the
private key to publish but as as you
know and I've been talking about a few a
few points this will take some time and
there's also separate tag a track about
identity and identity manager that we
talked previously to start by this week
only this week so I'm kind of you know
why I want to have the feedback about
what I should do next and also there is
an opportunity for you know to bring -
to get some help in these in these two
tamashii specified
things that are listed here are not very
complicated at all they're kind of
simple so yeah I want some feedback on
what I should do next either kickstart
identity /a DM or or washi specify and
also I need I need to prepare my talk
about dubs plus IP f s+ beer startup
four approaches pizza can you open the
link that I gave you on slack so that so
that I can sure oh you're not sharing
anymore I am won't interfere I can see
here so yeah I will be one of the
speakers of the next approaches meetup
and this is a very important meetup
because it has a lot of known faces we
have n drivers here which is a Mozilla
developer that has been working on leave
um and also have Alex from from protocol
as well to talk about probably IP
offense I don't know and I will be
talking about this stuff as well it's an
NPM on IP address and Pam I hope if it's
okay and I will be talking about peer
startup and and this is basically an
interpretation of the talk that or
during the workshop that we are being
given and Pedro but with the with some
differences as well hopefully
improvements yeah and that's it for me
ok cool I think of any questions forever
no so
it's demo time so I can have like five
minutes I'm going to try and make it a
quick demo and if the demo gods allow me
so pure pads and to end load tests I'm
going to demoed the new version of
piercer app running on on pure pads so
does everyone see my my screen alright
okay so I'm on pure pad checked out npm
run tests it should be loads and so
fingers crossed
okay this is
this is end-to-end load tests but with
are using ciphers
no I'm using puppeteer and so I'm what
I'm doing is like well typically the
puppeteer tests are not are not our
headless but I'm just just for demo
purposes I took the headless option out
and so that we're I'm injecting random
not random sequential characters but
each pier takes one character and so
they're there at the same time injecting
characters on the pads and hopefully by
the end of that that face they will all
be converging if not
there is an issue
you
[Music]
that's who so right right behind here
I'm just writing the deltas that
everyone is suffering so sorry but
almost windows oh yeah so mmm demo gods
they didn't have yeah they didn't help
them do that blend Oh God didn't help on
this one
I bet it's related to yeah something is
weird
more or less all
oh there are something blocking some of
these guys so there's random changes
being propagated across across them and
then there is this that then there is
this process on our behind that's
falling for the states and making sure
that the state they reach the state of
of convergence which I believe they've
reach and then after that they make
random changes now we entered the face
of random changes on a patch so again
this is inserting and removing
characters at random and then waiting a
bit and seeing if all the the peers are
in sync this is how I found out that we
were exchanged a lot of timing works in
this scenario changing a lot of state
instead of just the deltas and now I'm
printing the deltas and the deltas are
pretty small as you as you can see so
back to the demo so the changes have
stopped now and hopefully they're all on
the same path States and now after some
time out the
rather will realize they have all the
same state compared States and the test
is completed and this is the the Edwin
lo test that Jim was was referring to
earlier the timeout our timeouts are
conservatives because we had bigger sink
times before hopefully now they're there
they're smaller as you can see there
they're not changing for haven't changed
for a while so the the injection phase
and it's all good so if you want to
check check this out and and have in the
tests are pure pad tests each wheel
loads there is a bunch of configuration
here spawning cluster of a puppeteer had
some options on puppeteer so I invite
you to play with it with a concurrency
and see what comes out and and trying to
use pierced our apt latest and thank you
won't stop sharing all right I will
reach the limit but there is another
demo I think on the list if people can
wait a bit if not actually very fast
yesterday okay take one minutes I
promise
so yeah I will share my screen put this
sure screen okay can you see my screen
yes
okay so I'll ask for help in this case
and rest so there is prepared to help me
out to you know showcase this demo so
I'm here on the the working group then
I'm clearing capabilities and we are
used if the reply feature just to you
know showcase it working so answer I can
you reply to my my comment okay cool I
will just add some something like some
other
so okay
and I was so add a few more and few more
okay so if i if i refresh i see that the
replies are still there and i see there
they are being collapsed so only the
latest two replies are being shown to
the user and you can lazy load them as
you want so you can expand expand them I
will add a few more just quickly so that
you can see the pagination should we go
for the level yeah yeah you can and also
help me feel some comments ladies faster
I just need to reach out ten comments so
that you you see the load more working
on okay yeah Marco is helping to thank
you Michael yeah I will try to recruit
I'll try to refresh that and see if it's
working for you yeah we have 49 points
so if I open that it shows like it's
expanded ten more and it expand the last
four ones so I will actually show just a
lazy load part I will just add a few
actually a bunch of comments this is for
you to see there was the lazy load part
working hopefully that's enough and if i
refresh if I I scroll hopefully the
connection delay is not visible so if
you see my scroll position here it's you
see you see it's lazy loading the list
of comments I will replay that but it's
too fast so it's great yeah it's
actually very fast you know because I
have all the data locally but
if i if i hell Aventis you haven't
download the see ids it will fill a
placeholder and then it would show the
comments once loaded so yeah that's the
demo I think that's it yay thank you
all right so many questions comments
yeah I just wanted to say that I will
follow up on about what I should do next
like should I focus on launching idea
sorry washing discuss if I on the chrome
store or the end of Firefox
I don't store or just focus on on
bootstrapping the identity slash IDM
part I will probably send an email to
Pedro but my ideas also regarding these
because there's a there's the thing the
thing that blocks the release of discus
if I is not like major things that can
like we can bring help easily to do
those parts so yeah let's talk let's
poke must look after yeah okay any
questions comments in general
no so
let's let's hang out so the people that
are interested in the Vivid's security
conversation if not see you around thank
you for coming thank you thank you all
bye see ya